Vastoma

In the 21st Century, many of us have friends and family all over the world.
However, even when we know we'll be traveling to a place near where they live,
planning to actually meet up is a hassle: social media posts get buried by 
algorithms, emails go unsent, friends move and forget to let us know. 

We can do better. Vastoma — from the Mordviniv word for "meeting" — will
share your travel plans with your friends and relatives living at (or planning
to travel to) your destination, and put you in touch with anyone who wants to
meet up. 

Our solution will:

### Provide a simple UI for publishing travel plans

Select a city, arrival time, and departure time from an intuitive menu. 


### Inform you of potential meetup dates

If you and a friend will be in the same place at the same time, Vastoma will
notify both of you, and start an email or IM thread in which you can make
plans. 


### Share your plans with your friends, and only your friends

Before a new travel plan is published, you will be asked to choose who should
hear about it, and who shouldn't. You can share your weekend getaway with your
best friends, without worrying that your nosy co-workers will show up halfway
through. Make lists of friends and family to notify all at once, or add people
one by one. 


### Integrate with existing social networks

This is a bit of a stretch goal during the weekend hackathon, but our final
product will allow you to import your personal data, including contacts and 
current place of residence, from existing social media accounts. 


## Work Plan for Ultrahack

To maximize the utility of our limited time at Ultrahack, we will be focusing
on core functionality, with a couple of stretch goals if we finish early. 


### Functional AWS Backend

One of our two essential tasks is getting the backend up and running: setting
up our database, writing the necessary endpoints, and ensuring that they
function as planned. 


### Basic UI

The other essential task is UI functionality. We will need simple and
intuitive flows for creating an account, searching for and adding friends, and
publishing a travel plan, as well as push notifications when your plans
overlap with those of your friends. Less essential but still desirable (and
likely very easy) are friend lists. 


### Social Network Integration

Upon creating their account, a user should be able to import their friends and
place of residence from their existing social media accounts. Although the
service will still function without this, it will be much more appealing to
the average user if they don't have to fill out yet another profile by hand. 


### Localization

We will be building with localization in mind from the very beginning. Time
and energy permitting, we would like to provide at the very least Finnish and
Russian translations of our app, in addition to the default English. 



## Challenges

### Privacy

A person's travel plans are, perhaps obviously, fairly sensitive data. While
some risk can be mitigated by following good security practices (both on the
coding side and, in a hypothetical future company, the human side), preventing
data breeches is only the tip of the iceberg. What steps can we take to reduce
the impact if a breech does occur? What is the absolute minimum amount of
personal data we can collect, and the minimum length of time we can store it
for, while still providing our intended service? Is end-to-end encryption
worth the hassle? 


